# Introduction

The powerplant or engine of a car is arguably the single most vital piece of
equipment in an automobile. Its positioning and drive-train connection are
obviously subjects of a great deal of research and analysis. Of note, and of
particular importance to our project, is the NVH analysis of the Engine block while
it is running, and how modifying the orientation and positioning of the mounts can
help reduce the overall vibrations and noise generated by the engine.
Engine mounts are used to support the engine and isolate the base frame of an
automobile from the vibrations. In most cars, the engine and transmission are
bolted in place by three, or four mounts. In this project, we will work on a three
mount system.
Of the two major challenges that engineers face when it comes to vibration
isolation the first challenge is force isolation, due to rotating or reciprocating
machinery with unbalanced masses. As the engine has pistons which undergo
linear translatory motion, and a shaft that rotates, there are very complicated
interactions that are a result of the reciprocating motion and the torque generated.
The objective of analysing this is to minimize the force transmitted from the engine
block to the supporting foundation. The second challenge is motion isolation where
we are concerned with minimizing the transmitted vibration amplitude into the
structure itself such that the engine and the vehicle are protected from each others’
inertial reactions. This is achieved by mounting the engine on a resilient support, or
an isolator such that the natural frequency of the system is lower than the
frequency of the incoming vibrations that are to be isolated.


# Noise, Vibration and Harshness

Noise, Vibration and Harshness (NVH) analysis is the study and modification of
the noise and vibration aspects of a vehicle, with a particular focus on noise and
vibration generation mechanisms, and how to change their properties.
While noise and vibration can be easily calibrated by changing parameters of
secondary parts in the system, harshness is a subjective quality and is measured
either via board evaluations or with analytical tools that can provide results
showing subjective human impressions that are quite often in the psychoacoustic
realm.
The field of NVH analysis is mostly dominated by engineering analysis and
research, but more often than not, the objective measurements fail to predict the
subjective impression on human observers, and end-users. The field of
psychoacoustics is partly concerned with this correlation.
In some situations NVH engineers are requested to change sound quality by adding
or removing particular harmonics, rather than making the vehicle less noisy, rather
counterintuitively. An excellent example is fake noise generation in electric
vehicles, because they are usually virtually noiseless, and are thus sometimes
dangerous on roads as pedestrians don’t pay attention.
The predominant sources of noise in vehicle are:-
● Aerodynamic (HVAC inlets, spoilers, open windows, etc.)
● Mechanical (Brake squeal, engine/shaft vibrations, structural vibrations)


● Electrical (Electromagnetically induced acoustic noise and vibration due to
oscillating circuits (in electric cars))


# Model of a Powertrain Mounting System

The Powertrain Mounting System (PMS) is the link between the powertrain and
the chassis of the car and plays an important role in supporting the powertrain,
limiting the displacement, as well as isolating any vibration excitation. Optimal
design of the PMS plays a vital role in improving the vibration performance of any
vehicle.

# Multi-body dynamics model of PMS

In this project, we will work on a multi-body dynamics model. The PMS has three
mountings, wherein the upper mounting is located above the transmission, the
down mounting is placed close to the joint surface of the engine and the
transmission, the left mounting is placed on the left side of the engine. In the
Cartesian coordinate system, the model simulates the actual powertrain by setting
the corresponding mass and inertia properties.


# Engine mounting

Engine mounts are the rigid clamps or brackets by the help of which an engine is
mounted on the chassis of a vehicle. They are made in such a way that they isolate
the transfer of vibration from engine to the frame or vice versa.
There are various types of mounts, which work based on different techniques. The
two main categories are usually active mounts and passive mounts. Active mounts
usually have some form of digital control logic and a feedback loop that actively,
through the use of some algorithm similar to a PID control, keeps track of the
excitation forces being exerted, and counteract them live using actuators in the
mounts.
We will be focussing on passive mounts in this project. Passive mounts too have
various types, including the current best industry-standard being the passive
hydraulic mount. We will, however, be working with a regular elastoviscous
“rubber” mount.
The engine mount keeps the engine secured, prevents it from vibrating excessively
and ensures that it stays properly connected. It also keeps vibrations from
travelling through the frame and other parts of the vehicle.
The mounts that are made of rubber can withstand large amounts of deformation
under loads with the ability to almost retain their original shape when the load is
removed. This is due to the viscoelastic property of the used rubber, allowing it to
be used as an isolator and as a damper. The rubber absorbs vibrations while
allowing a small amount of movement.


A typical mounting system consists of a powertrain and a number of mounts that
connect the powertrain to the supporting frame. The major objective of the engine
mount is to prevent the engine vibrations from being transferred to the supporting
frame.
Most rear-wheel drive cars have almost the same engine mount system. The
conventional arrangement has developed over time, almost in a manner similar to
natural evolution, and the industry has settled on the current model to be a reliable
system and not much major variation is seen from one car to another.
However, the same cannot be said for front-wheel-drive cars. Designing the
mounting system of a front-wheel-drive is much more demanding, owing to factors
such as engine compartment space restrictions, greater equivalent torque acting on
the powerplant, fewer cylinders and less symmetry, which make the conventional
design methods rather challenging to employ. To make matters worse, the direction
and positioning of the engine are wildly different, which means that torque is
usually acting in an entirely different direction altogether.
In our project, using optimization methods, the mount attributes are varied to
minimize the force transmission, subject to constraints such as the maximum
allowable motion of the body at any of the mount attachment points.
Previously, this approach has been applied to engine mount optimization using